[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GREGG BRADEN: Because
this is the way we think.
Like, we complete each
other's sentences.
Hello.
My name's Gregg
Braden, and I want
to welcome you to this very
special edition of "Missing
Links."
Today I am with a dear
friend, a colleague who I've
known for many, many years.
We have had the opportunity
to tour the world together,
to share the new
discoveries based
on peer-reviewed science
that are overturning
150 years of scientific
thinking when
it comes to you and
me and the way we
feel about ourselves, our
relationship to the world,
and beyond.
Today we're going to be talking
about what those discoveries
mean in our lives.
Where do we go?
How do we apply
these discoveries?
Bruce, I want to thank you.
Welcome to the program today.
>>BRUCE LIPTON: I am so happy
to be back with you, Gregg.
Thank you so very much.
>>GREGG: Well,
you're very welcome.
You're always a welcome
guest in this series
because you've got
so much to say.
We've covered a lot of
ground through the work
that we've done together and
through these interviews.
And the new discoveries--
it's not like they
happened at a fixed
moment in time.
They are constant.
They are ongoing.
The best science
of the modern world
continues to reveal the deepest
truths of our existence, that
tell us that we are not who
we've been told in the past,
much more than we've
been led to believe,
and empower us to embrace
change in a healthy way.
And I just to ask you, just
as a general question, based
on everything that
you've discovered now
and the things that
we shared, how do
you feel about our world today?
How do you feel
about where we are?
Are you optimistic?
Are you pessimistic?
>>LIPTON: Well, the
most important thing,
the way I see it right
now, is that we are exactly
where we are supposed
to be, that we're
in a process of evolution.
And we're moving from a
non-sustainable world into one
that is sustainable--
very significant
in that is there's
a structure of the world
that we're living in,
and it turns out
science has revealed
that the culture that we
have created on this planet
is actually precipitating
what is called
the sixth mass
extinction of life,
which, of course, will
include humans, as well.
And since it's based
on human behavior,
the only way out
of the problem is
to change human behavior,
which, by definition, change
human culture.
So we're in a process where
the culture that we were raised
with has to come down so
we can build on a better
foundation, a culture we can--
>>GREGG: Absolutely
>>LIPTON: --thrive
into the future with.
So we're in the process of
the original one coming down
and a new one forming
at the same time.
And when you look
outside and you go,
oh, my god, it looked
kind of crazy outside.
Well, that would be the
appearance of this chaos,
as an old system
is disassembling
and a new system
is coming together.
And so are we in
the right place?
I think we're exactly
in the right place.
>>GREGG: Well, it fits
right into the model
that both you and I have
adhered to independently.
And we both-- there's a
lot of overlap in the way
that we see in terms
of cycles and trends.
The only things breaking
down are the things
that are unsustainable.
If we waited for
the moment that we
needed a new way of thinking,
if we waited for that moment
to try to develop new ways
of living and thinking,
it'd be too late.
And the beauty is, now, for the
last half of the 20th century,
now the early part
of the 21st century,
we've already got
everything that we
need to implement the
new ways of thinking,
new ways of living, sustainable
ways of being in this world.
So it's not like we have
to go back to square one
and say, oh, god, now
what are we going to do?
We already know what to do.
And it makes that
transition so much easier.
I think the key--
I'm finding the key is to
make the new discoveries
accessible to a broad, general
audience, rather than the very
specific audiences.
In the scientific
community, for example,
they publish in
peer-reviewed journals that
are only read by their peers.
You don't see that in the
broad, general audience.
So how, in your opinion,
what is the best way?
How can we share this so
that people can thrive?
>>LIPTON: What we're really
in a position to do right now
is recognize a very important
fact-- knowledge is power.
And while people
have heard that, it's
more important to hear the
corollary, a lack of knowledge
is a lack of power.
And we have been
deprived of the knowledge
that people know at the front
end, the head scientists,
the head economic people.
And they talk in their
own circles, as you said.
But until that information
comes into the public,
then the public has no
power to deal with this.
>>GREGG: Right.
>>LIPTON: So the first
part of our evolution
is, first, we must wake up,
and wake up to who we are,
what we are, and
where we're going,
and this information
is not available
in conventional schools and
conventional curriculum.
So it's a time for us
to bring to the public--
when we get a chance
to present, we
present stuff that is really,
only discussed at some higher
level and never comes down--
and why we do this
and it's so important
is then we give the public
this knowledge, which empowers
them to make the change.
So the knowledge is, yeah,
we're going through an evolution
that when you see the world
looking kind of crazy,
that's not a scary
thing, that's actually
one of the most hopeful
things in the world.
Because if it actually
stayed the same,
we would have a much more
rapid extinction process
than we have right now.
>>GREGG: Well, again, and
we've talked about this
before, the only things that
are really unraveling right now
are the things that
are unsustainable.
And they're based
on a way of thinking
that was introduced in the mid
1800s, when Darwin introduced
his idea--
I met with a group of
young people recently,
and when you talk about the
1800s to a group of millennials
it's like, you look at
their eyes and it's just--
they can't even fath--
they look at me and
they say, well, you
were born in the 20th
century, you know?
And that was,
like, last century.
So they're already
thinking along the lines
that these are old discoveries.
And so they asked me, they
said, OK, Gregg, Darwin,
mid 1800s, 1859, he published
his book, "Origin of Species."
This is the 21st
century, what difference
could it possibly make?
And it's a good question.
And when I tell them that
the society that we have come
to depend upon, that
we're living in today,
the foundations
that society were
built in late
1800s, early 1900s,
upon the principles that
were embraced quickly,
that were introduced
by Charles Darwin.
So the economic
principles of competition,
the corporate system, the
way we share vital resources.
So this is why I think
it's so important that we
have a new story.
>>LIPTON: It has to
be, because the story
is the cause of the problem.
So right away, it says
you can't solve a problem
with the same thinking
that created the problem.
Albert said that.
>>GREGG: Yeah.
>>LIPTON: And the reality is
new thinking is coming in,
thank god, because
there is an opportunity
to change the thinking.
And it's interesting because
the millennial generation people
are the ones, of course,
that haven't been so fully
groomed with the
old belief system,
that they're still open to
have another option presented
to them.
>>GREGG: Sure.
>>LIPTON: And what we're seeing
from the front end of science
is, oh, my god, the
new sciences are really
all about self empowerment--
how we can control our lives,
control our health, create
what we're unfolding.
And one of the ones
that I love the most
is because it's so basic,
fundamental to everything
in the world, and this
comes from quantum physics,
which is the most valid
science on this planet.
There is no science
with more truth.
And the first principle
of quantum physics
is consciousness is creating
our life experiences.
And I go, well, a
profoundly simple statement,
but profoundly simple meaning.
And that is, if you
change your consciousness,
then you change your
life experiences.
And this is what we need to do.
We have to get out of the old
consciousness of limitation,
old consciousness of
competition and that violence
is a necessary part
of our biology, which
the Germans actually
wrote in a science paper
that war is a necessary
part of our evolution.
>>GREGG: Yeah.
>>LIPTON: And so
these old beliefs
are really holding us behind.
And the new beliefs
are more important,
because the new beliefs
take us into community.
Rather, Darwinian theories
are based on individual.
Who's the most fit,
the fittest individual?
And I say, well,
wow, that's just
basic competition-- who's
going to find they're
going to be the fittest?
Who's going to
fight for the top?
And I say the new biology is,
like, not based on the fittest.
It's based on those that
can fit in the best, those
that can adapt the
best, those that
live in a community in harmony.
So all of a sudden, it
says evolution is not
the separation based on
one individual competing
with another individual.
The evolution is the
people coming together
in a community and
sharing awareness, which
is the foundation of a process
called emergence, which
means you may know all
the individual pieces-- so
for example, an electric
engineering person
knows a resistor, a capacitor,
a transistor, transformers,
all these pieces.
And the reality is, well, you
have all the knowledge of all
the pieces, but
it's only when you
can put the pieces together
and create something
like a computer--
the computer comes
out of the pieces.
You can't see the
computer in the pieces.
You can only, when you're
bringing them together,
see that.
And so what we're in a very
similar kind of emergence
right now.
We have a lot of intelligence
about a lot of things.
But until it all comes
together and creates
the image of the
future, then we're
capable of moving into that.
>>GREGG: Well, I think--
and what you're saying
is it happens on levels
within levels within levels.
And for me-- and I
recognize this when I was
in the corporations-- the most
fundamental levels is that we
have taken nature,
compartmentalized nature
in these little boxes that
we're comfortable studying,
like a box called geology--
I'm a geologist--
>>LIPTON: Yeah.
>>GREGG: --chemistry
or physics or biology.
Nature doesn't know
about those boxes.
There is no boundary.
Where do you draw the
line between where
does chemistry end
and biology begin?
Where does quantum physics
end and everything else begin?
The answer is the minute
you draw that line,
you're locked into
the separation
and the false assumptions.
So as a scientist,
I've always wanted
to ask you this question--
as a scientist, if
our world mirrored,
on a biological
level, everything
that you've found to be
true in cells and biology,
what would our world
look like today?
How would our world
model society, families,
populations after what the
cell is teaching us about life?
>>LIPTON: Well,
the first thing we
have to understand
about a cell is
that all of the functions
that are in a human
are already present in
almost all of our cells.
So a human doesn't have
anything new that a cell has.
And I say then what is a human?
I say, well, we see it as an
individual, as a one entity.
The truth is a human has a
community of 50 trillion cells.
And guess what?
Cells have jobs.
Cells have an economy.
Cells have a health care system.
They have a government.
All of the functions that we
express in our outer world
are totally reflected by
the functions expressed
on the inner world.
The relevance is
this, think about
that your body is made out of
50 trillion individual cells
and every cell is like
a miniature human.
I say, my goodness,
there's a community
of $50 trillion humans living
in harmony under our skin.
And all of a sudden,
I say, well, they
have the same needs and
the same requirements
that we, as individuals, have.
And the new science, which
is called biomimicry,
is really the
leading edge science
that says, well, how can 50
trillion cells live in harmony
and work together
and create health?
And the idea is once you
start to look inside and see
the exchanges of how they
relate to each other,
how there's an economy, there's
actually a money moving around
in the system, and you
start to realize the economy
and the biology is so
different than the economy
in our human world that
once-- if you understand
the biology inside
the economy, we
can create a healthy
world out here.
There's only 8 billion of us
and there's 50 trillion cells
inside.
They have a lot to teach us.
And fortunately for me, I was
excited to be a cell biologist.
Because I observed cells
for many, many, many years,
and cloning them and studying
them and seeing how they work.
And that's what helped
change my entire life
because I didn't take
my lessons from society
and the conventional stuff.
I took them from the cells.
And once I started
to live according
to the principles
the cells taught me,
my life completely
changed on this planet.
And I've been living in
harmony with the environment--
as you said, it's not just
living with other people.
It's living with
everything else around us--
the chemistry, the energy,
the biology, the physics.
Once you learn to live in
harmony with that, then
all of a sudden you're on
a whole different plane.
A healthy human
body is a reflection
of a healthy community.
>>GREGG: Exactly.
>>LIPTON: And this
is what we need.
And just before I end on
that very simple point,
in our world today people
are fighting each other.
And in bodies where the
cells fight each other,
disease is called autoimmune
disease, which by definition
means self-destruction.
And it's interesting
because we're
experiencing a self-destruction
in our society.
And the more self-destruction
in our society-- guess what--
the more the individuals
are reflecting that
in their own inner society.
So autoimmune diseases
are on the rise,
because autoimmune disease is
affecting the human population.
And the basis says, how can
you get to harmony again?
The answer is stop fighting
each other and, all of a sudden,
we have a doorway to
peace and happiness.
>>GREGG: Sure.
So I'm thinking about
everything that we're saying
and a question that
comes to my mind,
and people have asked
us this question,
is when it comes to the
term survival-- you know,
it means different things
to different people.
But if nature is
not, in fact, based
upon Darwin's idea of
competition, then what does it
mean to survive?
What is that really telling us?
>>LIPTON: Well,
it's very important
to understand that below
our consciousness level,
even below our basic
level of awareness,
there's something called
the biological imperative.
The biological imperative
is the drive to survive.
Every organism, from a
bacterium up to a human--
you try to kill
a bacterium, it's
not going to sit there
and go, oh, OK, kill me.
It's going to do
everything to stay alive.
So every organism is
driven to stay alive.
>>GREGG: Right.
>>LIPTON: Now the significance
is, well, what does it mean?
Well, as an individual, that
means, well, first of all,
you have to have air, water,
food, safety, shelter,
and something to do.
And why is this important?
Because if we fulfill
those basics, which
are the basics of life,
then the drive to survive
has been fulfilled.
And to do that also
involves community.
Why?
Because if some person
is dropping out and not
doing well, then other
people in the community
are supposed to
be there to, what?
Lift them up and bring them up.
Dolphins do this all the time.
One of them is not doing
well, other dolphins
will swim underneath
and lift them up
so they can breathe the air
and then come back down.
That's called working in harmony
and working in a community.
And community is the
evolutionary endpoint
that we're looking for.
Because as you can see
in the world right now,
it's so broken up into
small, little groups
and here and here.
But until they
integrate and recognize
we're all one living
community, then
survival takes on a
different meaning.
That means we support each
other in this process.
And all of a sudden, the idea
of competition, which says,
look, I got my food and
you don't have yours
and that's just the
Darwinian theory
and we're OK with it, that's
not OK in a world based
on cooperation and community.
>>GREGG: Yeah.
It can't be.
I think we're moving from
the thinking of surviving
to the understanding
it's possible to thrive.
>>LIPTON: Yes.
>>GREGG: Survival leaves
us with the feeling
we're just getting by.
Thriving suggests
that regardless
of what the circumstances
are, how they change,
that we not just get
by, but we actually
are able to do just that--
to thrive, to rejuvenate,
to regenerate biologically,
and be very productive in terms
of the way we do this.
I'm an optimist but
I'm also a realist.
And I look into the world
for realistic examples.
And time after time,
I've written about these
in some of the books.
I have a book, "Deep Truth,"
where I talk about these.
We see examples of humans who
are in dire situations, life
and death situations, where
their lives and the lives
of themselves, or even other
animals, are threatened.
And time after
time, what you see
is there's a
subconscious trigger that
appears to kick in.
And at the risk of
their own safety,
people will put
themselves in harm's way.
When the floods
happened in Europe,
they were saving elephants
at the risk of being drowned.
Afghanistan and Baghdad,
there are more stories
than I could even recount of--
One, soldiers are in a Humvee,
someone tosses in the grenade,
and one soldier,
without even thinking,
throws his body on that
grenade and absorbs
the impact and the shrapnel
to save the people around him.
He didn't even have
time to think about it.
And that tells us
it's not something--
it's not based on logic.
It's who we are.
It's the essence of who we are.
And I think that's
the difference
between surviving and thriving.
>>LIPTON: Well, absolutely.
And it's so important
to recognize that.
For example, when the tsunami
came, we have a military.
And I said, what's the
function of the military?
It's like, that's protection.
And I go, yeah, but it's also
a reflection of arms and legs.
When I say, what's a
protection-- response, arms
and legs.
I said, well, the military
is society's arms and legs
to go out there and fight.
But you also brought up
a very important point.
The adrenaline that makes
a soldier go into war
is the same
adrenaline that makes
the firemen go into the burning
building to save a person.
And so basically, it says when
we use, as a system, the arms
and legs, the adrenal system,
and we only focus it on war
and create a military that
only fights, by definition,
then you better have some wars.
Because otherwise, what are you
doing with all these people?
Except when the tsunami
came, for example,
the military was
called in to do what?
Help the people.
And then when they talked
to the soldiers afterwards,
the soldiers said
that was their finest
hours of being in the service.
I go, this is exactly
the relationship.
I need the military
if there's a threat,
but I also need the
military to help.
>>GREGG: Sure.
>>LIPTON: And when the military
is doing the helping job,
it fulfills not just their
life, but it changes the world,
as well.
And so what we
really have to do is
recognize that the
military is really
the department of mobility.
Are we moving towards
something that we
don't want to get rid of?
Are we moving towards
something we want to build up?
The military should be
doing both of these.
>>GREGG: Yeah.
I've always said that.
I have friends of mine in the
military-- young men and women.
And yeah, they can
go into combat,
but they are really good
at rapid deployment.
They're good at building
hospitals within hours,
at distributing food,
shelter, and helping people
in times of need.
And as we're going through
this convergence, our time
of extremes, the chaos
of a changing world,
our extremes are becoming
more and more common.
And the intense weather that
we're seeing-- these tsunamis,
tornadoes, fires, all
those kinds of things--
and these people want-- it
is their natural desire.
They want to help.
And you're right, they
feel more fulfilled when
they do something like that.
So I think all of these help
us to see if we need something
to reinforce within ourselves
what our truest nature is--
that conflict,
competition, these
are learned characteristics.
It's not our truest nature.
So in looking at the most
basic unit of life as a model,
as a template, on the
microscopic level,
for what's happening
in the macro level--
although I'm an
earth scientist, I
have a strong background
in the life sciences.
I was an ocean science
major-- marine biology
and molecular
biology and all that.
And one of the
things that really,
really stood out for me--
and I didn't pursue
it to the degree
that you have as a biologist--
but whenever I would
study populations
of cells, the cells,
as a community,
every one of the cells had
to have the basic needs met
before the unit of cells
could move forward and evolve
and progress in a healthy way.
And I always felt
that we were being
shown something so profound.
Because if we apply that
idea to our communities
and to our world
and our populations,
I think that's a
powerful template.
Do you feel-- I
mean, do you see--
>>LIPTON: It's more than
a powerful template,
and I've been talking
about this for a long time.
Because as I said,
in the body there's
an exchange of currency.
It's called ATP--
adenosine triphosphate.
It's a coin of the realm.
That's what biologists
refer to it as.
>>GREGG: It's not a Bitcoin.
>>LIPTON: Not a very--
it's a very little bit.
And the idea about it is
that it's a unit of energy.
And what's interesting is
there is no wealth in the body
until every cell has
the basics of life.
Every cell has to be able
to be fed, protected,
have an environment, have a
job, and they all work together.
What's interesting then is
once every cell is covered,
any more energy
wealth in the system
now can go to individuals.
So there's another level that
says once everybody's covered,
then individual cells can
start to make more energy
and hold onto this
energy in their cells,
these units, these
coins of the realm.
And so the next level--
first level is everybody
first has to be given
the basics of life.
Then anything produced
after that is called wealth.
And the first level of
wealth is individuals
can accumulate wealth
because of their jobs.
Nerve cells have a lot
more ATP than a skin cell.
But it's all based on their
job and the energy required.
But what's also
interesting is this.
Because the wealth is a
coin, a molecular unit,
a cell can only have so much.
And it says once a cell has the
full complement of money, ATP,
that it can have,
any extra wealth then
goes into the community bank.
And the community bank is to
cover all contingencies-- you
break a leg, you have a
problem with your kidney,
or something like that.
There's a resource
to cover the system.
Now, this is completely
different than the world
we live in, which says
I can make as much money
as I want at the
expense of others
that don't have anything.
So some people can
have $60 billion
and then there's
a million people
living in a garbage pile, trying
to scrape some food together.
It's like, oh, my god, we are
so out of balance on this.
>>GREGG: Well,
those are Darwinian.
Those are Darwinian ideas.
>>LIPTON: Absolutely.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>GREGG: So this is where
you and I, I think, have--
there's a potential here.
Because we can pass laws.
You can pass--
Congress passed, for example,
the anti-hate law in 2009,
making a hate crime illegal.
So you can make it illegal
to perform a hate crime,
but that law doesn't change the
fundamental thinking that leads
to the hate to begin with.
So what I'm seeing
is our society
is creating temporary
bandages, trying
to fix a problem without
understanding fundamentally
what the essence is.
And what you and I are doing is
we're transcending the bandage,
and we're going right to the
core of the thinking that
has led to the wound that
we're all dealing with.
And so my question--
Bruce, what do you think
is the most efficient way
to share this information in
a meaningful, applicable way
beyond our community that
has already embraced it,
beyond the choir
that we have the op--
we love the choir.
The choir are the people
that come and support
our work and our programs
all over the world.
But if we're going
to carry this right
to the core of corporations,
to the core of governments,
to the core of places
where this has the greatest
impact, in your opinion, what
would be the most efficient way
to do that in the
shortest period of time?
>>LIPTON: Well, the
most efficient way
is to get the leaders in each
one of these corporations,
government, whatever
entity they are,
is to give them the education.
Because they're still, like
everybody else, been programmed
with this negative
kind of programming,
such as the Darwinian
belief that competition
is a way of life.
And it's like, I always laugh
about that because competition
leads to the violence
to compete and then
to war and all that stuff.
And then if I say, well,
look at the garden--
I say, what is a garden?
It's not a battleground.
A garden is the highest
cooperation in the world.
So we want to
return to a garden.
But then we need
leaders that understand
what we're talking about.
And unfortunately, leaders
come from the old programming,
so they're just perpetuating the
same old beliefs over and over
again.
So when we see the system
collapsing, as it is right now,
this is the very important sign.
Because as I said, then there's
an opportunity for new leaders
that come in with an educational
background of the new world,
to then help us get
out of the old hole
and bring us into the new one.
So of course, that
requires the old system
to collapse and the
seeding of a new system
with a consciousness,
intelligence of what's
at the front edge,
not dredging up
the old beliefs from the
past and keep putting them
in when they don't work.
>>GREGG: You know where I'm--
I agree 100%.
And where I'm really
encouraged, where I'm sitting,
is with the young people.
I recently had the
opportunity to lead a group
through Israel, three weeks.
And we see Israel through
the lens of a television news
camera, from the perspective
of the people who
are creating those images,
what they think is important,
what they want us to see.
I have to tell you, when
you're on the ground--
and you've been
there, you know this--
>>LIPTON: Oh, yes.
>>GREGG: It's a very
different image.
And one of the things
that I was so--
I mean, I cried.
I literally cried when
I saw the young people,
the Palestinian children
and the Israeli children--
and when I say children, some
of them were in grade school,
some of them were young adults.
They were together in the parks.
They were together
on the beaches.
And we talked to them.
And they love to
test their English.
>>LIPTON: Yeah.
>>GREGG: And they had
Western t-shirts on,
saying, "We love America" or "We
love France" or whatever it is.
And we talked to them.
We said, what do you
see for your country?
And they said-- and
they were very honest.
They said, we
understand the past.
They're very aware of the past.
They said, we
understand the hurt
of our parents, that
our parents experienced
and our grandparents.
They said, but
it's not our hurt.
And they said, we're
ready for another world.
And they put their
arms around on another.
The guys said, we're
in a band together,
we play soccer together.
>>LIPTON: Yes.
>>GREGG: The girls--
we went to a park
and there were probably 12,
15 Palestinian, Christian,
and Israeli girls
drumming and dancing.
And when our group
went over to join them,
they were thrilled
for us to do that.
So what they're saying
to us is that we're
ready for a new world.
While we're not denying
the past, it is the past
and we're going to move
from this point forward.
And they're asking for tools
to help them to do that.
And I think, for me, one of the
most efficient places, maybe,
we can put our energy is with
young people who are now--
I mean, what would
the world look
like with a group
of young people,
educated to understand that
nature is based on cooperation
and not competition, that
nature is their friend,
and that they're a part
of, rather than separate
from the world and empowered,
empowered, to self regulate
their own bodies?
I mean, what a very, very
different world we would have.
>>LIPTON: I've seen this.
Because when I've
been in Israel,
I've visited a young couple.
They got married.
And she is an Israeli Jew
and he is Israeli Arab.
And he was programmed--
>>GREGG: Wow.
>>LIPTON: --as a
kid to hate Jews
and she was programmed
to be afraid of Arabs.
And they saw each other
in a Sinai desert,
as they were walking
toward each other.
They didn't even get to each
other and that thunderbolt hit.
And within three
days, they got married
and then they had a
couple of young boys.
And it was time to go to school,
and that was the problem.
They said, where are we going
to send the kids to school?
So they went and looked
at the Jewish school.
Then they went and looked
at the Arab school.
And then they went and looked
at the Christian school.
And they came home
and they cried.
They said, we can't send
our kids to any of these
because each one was
polarizing the students
against the other
groups in each one.
>>GREGG: Yeah, demonizing
the other groups.
>>LIPTON: The actual-- more so--
yeah.
And so they created something
called the Orchard of Abraham.
And what it has,
it's a kindergarten
that brings Jewish and Arab
kids in the kindergarten thing.
Now, when you see these
kids playing together,
they have no vision of
animosity, no hatred
and all that.
And as you mentioned, when they
start working together, playing
together, and all that, it's
much harder to pull them
apart later and
say, hey, we've been
friends for so many
years now, I hate you.
That's not likely to happen.
And so when we start
with the young people,
and give them a chance to see
a world in a very different way
than we've been
programmed to see it,
they can grow up with a
different set of rules.
And the unfortunate part is that
in developmental programming,
a parent, the way
they were raised, used
that own programming, from
being raised as a family,
to raise their own family.
So they propagate the beliefs
from generation to generation
to generation, even without
knowing they're doing it.
Because it's a
subconscious behavior.
And the reality is there's a
point where we have to stop
and say we cannot keep
passing the old story,
because that's the thing
that prevents us from moving
into the future, as
you just mentioned.
So education is important.
And as these kids
begin to grow up,
and they grow up being friends,
there's not a likely one day
that they'll look at each
other and say, oh, my god,
you're my enemy.
It will never happen.
So we can stop a hundred,
200 years of this conflict.
>>GREGG: 3,000 years.
>>LIPTON: 3,000.
And get the children to start
to recognize we're all--
actually, the name of the
program that I'm involved with
is called Human
First, humans first.
We're first humans, then
they put all the programs on.
If we emphasize human first,
then it shows no separation.
And my understanding
of evolution
is there is a phase where
the individual is important,
to make the smartest individual.
But once you get the
smartest individual,
you can't make them any smarter
biologically, physically,
mechanically.
And I said, well,
then evolution ended.
And I say, yeah, it did.
But then the next
level of evolution
was to take the individuals,
bring them together
in a community, and create
something different.
And this is exactly
where we are right now,
is taking the
individuals and saying,
wait, we're all part
of the same community,
and bring them together.
So our evolution is
watching what the breakdown
of barriers and borders and--
because the internet was global.
And all of a sudden,
it says people in Iran
could talk to people in Detroit.
And all of a sudden, they
started communicating
across global lines.
What was the point?
The barriers, the
separations, the programming
disappeared when there
was a dialogue that
was capable of being
carried out across the globe
at the same time.
>>GREGG: You're answering
my last question here.
You've written a book called,
"The Honeymoon Effect."
>>LIPTON: Yes.
>>GREGG: And if we were
to see that honeymoon
effect in our world, what
would the world look like?
And I'll tell you the reason
I think this is important.
It's because it's one
thing to talk about change
and what the world
can be, but to have
that change we need an image
to cling onto, to grasp,
of what is possible.
Rather than saying
we want change,
what do we want that
change to look like?
So if the world reflected
the honeymoon effect,
what would that look like?
>>LIPTON: Well, I say,
look, an average person,
before they met that special
person that blew their minds,
they have a day to day life.
Oh, god, another day--
blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah-- every
day, every day.
And then they meet this person
that comes into their life.
And in 24 hours, their
blah, blah, blah world
goes to heaven on Earth.
They're so happy.
They're so overjoyed.
The music's better.
The food's better.
Even a job that
wasn't that good,
all of a sudden that's
not a problem anymore.
And guess what?
They're happy.
They're in love.
And all of a sudden,
I said, oh, when
the love comes into
the equation, heaven
comes onto the planet.
And the relevance about that
is, so how did they do that--
have a whole life of blah,
blah, blah, and, in 24 hours,
go into heaven on Earth?
And the answer is because
we don't realize it,
but 95% of our behavior
is coming from programs
that we've gotten,
especially those downloaded
in the first seven years.
And the interesting
part is what happens
when people fall in love?
Well, science has
now recognized it's
the first time in
their life they
stop playing the programs
they got in their development
and started creating from
what their personal wishes
and desires were.
And guess what?
Everybody's personal
wishes and desires,
as opposed to their
program, are what?
Love, happiness, joy,
fun, and all these things.
So when people stop
playing the program,
they start creating this version
called the honeymoon, which
all of a sudden is the most
enjoyable part of their lives.
And scientists recognize,
well, how did you do that
and how did you
do it in 24 hours?
And the answer was stop playing
the developmental program
that was downloaded into
us, especially when we
were children.
And the moment we stopped
playing that, the individual's
wishes and desires manifest.
And all of a sudden, the world
turns into heaven on Earth.
And this is what I actually
believe from my science,
that that's not just
a figure of speech.
People think, well, you
die and go to heaven.
And I go, I actually think
it's the other way around.
I think we're born into heaven.
>>GREGG: I love that.
>>LIPTON: Because this is
where we came to create.
And then you look
at the creation,
I go, well, it doesn't
look really good right now.
And I go, yeah, because
we're not creating
from our wishes and desires.
We are creating
from the programs.
And as the honeymoon
effect reveals,
the moment you stop
playing the program
and you start living from
wishes and desires, that's
the manifestation.
So the message is very clear.
It's the program that
has taken us away.
And it's the stopping of
the program that changes
the world into heaven on Earth.
>>GREGG: I think
this is so important.
You've given us a very real,
accessible, non-technical way
of mirroring in our
lives what the science is
telling us to be true.
So Bruce, I look
forward to you and I
seeing, in the world, the fruits
of the labor and the wisdom
from the knowledge that has
been revealed in our lifetimes,
that you and I have worked
almost our entire lifetimes
to share with the world.
I want to thank you for
being with us today.
>>LIPTON: I so appreciate it.
And I also want to
say, the joy, for me,
looking at an individual
such as yourself
and working in harmony
with someone who is working
from that point is like--
it is a completely
different world
than when I was working
in the scientific lab.
Because I start to realize
that-- because we're
creating as conscious
individuals,
as quantum physics reveals
our consciousness creating,
when we clear our
consciousness, then all
of a sudden the joy and the
love of the planet manifest.
And so I want to thank you
for revealing that to me
so I can work with
you on that level.
>>GREGG: It's the
new human story.
>>LIPTON: Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]